We're talking of Jackson.
Just do that again about the substance collection.
Well, I conceive myself as a substance collector, someone who collects not only the object in a certain condition, but understanding the dynamics of what goes into it.
That collection, the reading of it, the understanding of the intellectual background, as opposed to someone else who collects the object for itself and the condition and becomes the completist, where he has to collect every A and B.
item, bibliographic item.
As Buckley, Matthew Buckley has done with Fitzgerald, for instance, and I probably did.
Well, no, Scarlet Letter he did, famous for collecting every edition.
up to the 100th or 200 edition, and just to show.
And my answer is, so what?
I mean, what does that mean?
There's nothing scurrily about it.
It's an object that, you know, you put up on a shelf.
What did he do with it, you know?
He gave it away, I think, to the library.
Well, you see, now, his Fitzgerald collection, he has just sold to South Carolina, I think, for like a million or two million dollars.
Did you know that?
Yeah, it was in the 8th century.
I was going to get out.
He had a conference there for the 100th anniversary.
I'm interested in this because here's a collector, a scholar, a writer, and in a way influencing, I mean, a canon in a way.
It doesn't, even though Fitzgerald is part of it without any problem.
But you do affect every evaluation, don't you, in a way, when you have these conferences?
Absolutely.
Just like I did with this art conference, by having the conference bringing all these national speakers in,
And talking about painter A, B, and C, you now have elevated them to a focal point.
He does a Fitzgerald conference.
And Fitzgerald, who's been on the decline for a while now, will be back up.
I think so.
And that incidentally is worth me going down to talk to him about, by the way.
Yeah.
It's going to work.
Let's get back to the substance stuff that you were saying.
When we were back in your office, you didn't use the word eclectic to describe your collecting.
You used another phrase.
Do you remember what it was?
It was nice.
I wrote it down in the other notebook.
Oh, I didn't.
No, I forgot.
But it's not eclectic.
You didn't use that word, which is almost a casual word.
And I think with yourself, it's more studied.
I mean, it's more considered, I guess, is probably the word.
Well, the word is considered.
I mean, thoughtful.
But, I mean, I, you know, fell into... I started collecting Dickens because Dickens was a favorite author.
I bought a Thomas Wolfe, you know, because it was a favorite author.
And I started getting into different areas, and I thought through it, and then would go on from there.
I said, it's easy to collect a Hemingway or John... or Grapes of Breath.
I mean, it doesn't take any...
challenge or hunt.
You need to be, you learn.
So my collecting habits have always been to branch out, to learn.
How long have you collected?
Since the late 70s.
Starting at about what age?
What would you say?
40, 42.
Okay.
There's a difference in, you know, but then all,
collector's home's existence.
Of course.
You know, individuality here.
But this is not all the material I have.
The Burroughs material I'll show you tomorrow.
So tell me where we are to describe this room.
Well, this is an edition that I put on about 17 years ago.
for collecting books, and I've actually, it's the second library, and I've actually outgrown it.
And I have some problems, you know, just because of the amount of material I have.
But in here, in this room, I see O'Neill, and the Books and Parts, and the Thackeray, and the Kruk-Shanks, and I have an early American
collection down there.
Now this is, what you said earlier, is a new collection, right, or something?
I'm starting it, right.
I've got more books upstairs.
And the books and parts are private press books.
I also collect Night Paul.
I noticed that in the other room, yeah.
I gather because he's a travel writer, I imagine.
Right, and Matheson, and Marquez, and Pritchett, who I think is a great writer, and Wilson.
But those are not major collections.
but the Meredith, you know, the books and parts, the triple-deckers.
Describe a triple-decker.
It's simply a book that was issued in three volumes.
It was a very popular way in the 19th century.
The lending libraries would make more money by issuing books in three sections.
Why are you interested in parts, books and parts?
Well, what I wrote in the article
a little monograph I did.
But I started as a Dickens collector and I got fascinated with the structure of the novel in that the writer would shape the novel by the fact that they either write for deadlines and for over a series of times and so there's always these cliffhangers, these soap opera approach and Dickens, although he wasn't the first, ultimately personified the genre and
It started back in the 16th century, 17th century, and Stephen King is a great example of books issued in serial form.
Stephen King?
Stephen King.
I didn't know that.
The Green Mile.
I don't read the guy, so it's... Well, I didn't either, but what happened was he was issued... I read about this in November, and I wrote him.
You wrote King?
Did he write you back?
Well, no, he called me.
I said I was doing this exhibition.
He must have been pretty flattered that you did that.
Well, I put this in my Griller Club exhibition.
And so he gave me all his material here, which I used to display.
He gave me his manuscript for the first chapter.
And this is his... So it's really nice of him to... That's the Green Mile, 1982.
1996.
That's the page.
Oh, sorry.
Okay.
And what's unique about this book is all six books are on the New York Times bestseller list.
All six.
All six dominate the... Wow, it's very impressive.
And they're all issued in paper, is that right?
Right, here they are.
I saw them.
Yeah.
Let's just read some of the titles if we can.
The Mouse on the Mile.
Coffee's Hand.
Night Journey.
Coffee on the Mile.
Coffee must be the character, obviously.
Yeah.
Coffee on the Mile.
The Bad Death of Edward Delacroix.
D-E-L-A-C-R-O-X.
And this is, they call it the serial thriller.
Continues, continues, concludes.
Six parts.
Hmm.
That's pretty nice.
Yeah, and all I did was I wrote to him.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
I wrote to him, and I said, you know, would it be possible?
He called me up.
I was in the Bahamas.
I called him back from the Bahamas.
He said he'd love to do it.
Oh, that's great.
We talked about Cleveland, and, you know, and then the subsequent, I talked to him again, invited him to come, but he talked about The Shining, which he just redid.
He's a very nice person, and I just asked him.
Apparently, everybody said everybody had texted him.
Yeah, I just asked him.
So...
Anyway, so this is, you know, something I just got and did, because I would love to have had this book.
And I thought it was a nice symmetry between a 1710 book that I had and a 1996 book.
What was the 1710 book?
Mrs. Tussard's Husband Trees.
Okay.
It's a book about agriculture.
1710.
It's the only book known that's in parts before 1800.
And you have that?
I have it, and I showed it at the video.
So, anyway, that's... Did he inscribe anything for you?
No.
I couldn't ask him because... Would it be nice if he just did it?
He did it, but he didn't.
I was asking him to display, and I really... I owe him a letter, and I just haven't had... I really haven't... Did you send him the catalog?
Yes, I did.
I'm pretty sure I did.
You should.
Inscribe one instead of... You know what?
I don't think I should do that.
Pardon me for a... No, I think I did send him a catalog.
I'm going to get something back.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah.
You know, I think I did.
I have to check my... Is that a good idea?
Of course that's a good idea.
I think I did, but... It's just pure public relations to the end.
I mean, listen, I have a couple... But anyway, so... This room is filled with lots of treasures.
A lot of types.
And so I started with books and parts and literature, and since then I've gravitated towards books and parts.
I mean, I have an Autobahn in parts.
Do you?
Elephants?
No, not the elephants.
Quartos.
Quartos, yeah.
Which is pretty nice.
Still nice.
Yeah.
The elephant time is too expensive.
And I collected books, you know, agriculture.
agriculture and books on architecture.
Now, why architecture?
You're a lawyer.
I'll show you.
Bamboo.
I mean, you're just fascinated with it.
And when you buy them in the original condition, you're buying something that speaks of a period.
And I love architecture.
This is Gardens of Rome.
Oh, goodness my, look at that.
It's extraordinary.
Everything quite wonderful.
You know, do you have to be an expert in this area?
No, no.
But that's the beauty of the exquisite things.
You don't have to... I'm going to show you an early, then I started collecting early lithography.
and early color plates because it just fastened in.
It's the MDCCIX 1809.
See that look?
It's hardly foxed at all, very marginally.
It's a beautiful quality paper, isn't it?
Oh, it's one that, I mean, it's unique.
You know, I've checked it with, you know, it hasn't been a, as far as I know, in this century, there hasn't been one on the market with this.
Now, is it desirable?
It is a desirable book.
And we should say the dimensions of this are basically elephant, right?
Elephant folio cells.
Easily.
Three feet.
You keep it standing like that, right?
Yeah, I haven't really quite figured out.
I actually alternate that because I'm not quite sure what to do with it.
But then there's
Keep the lighting low in here.
I'm glad about that.
That's a Rockwell Kent.
That's the original drawing.
Einstein and Thomas Mann sold that at an auction in 1938.
This book makes the home.
This particular poem.
Is this a poster?
What is it?
It was meant to be a poster, but it's the original drawing for the poster.
That's the original drawing.
They sold it as a benefit for German refugees.
What year you know offhand?
30s must be, huh?
Well, it was sold in 1938.
That was a good guess, wasn't it?
Yeah, right.
That's the original, though.
Yeah.
Look at the condition of this.
In the original.
They're just gorgeous scenes.
I mean, you don't have to be an expert.
And what are these?
Can you tell me?
A lithography of scenes from Persshire.
Sketches of scenery in Perthshire, P-E-I-T-H-S-H-I-R-E, drawn from nature and on stone, which means lithography, by D.O.
Hill, H-I-L-L.
Published by the Hill Great Street, Perth.
It's in that.
It's in my green border.
But you see this here?
It just keeps going like that.
I love these.
They're lithographs.
They're early lithographs.
1810, 1820.
That's really wonderful.
I got more like that.
I mean, it would take about six to eight hours to go through.
How many?
Six to eight.
I mean, to really do it justice.
And it's because... And I think there's too many of you sort of developed.
It's a function of explaining.
It's one thing.
Here's another one.
Here's a nice little landscape.
Not an important piece, but they use a French map.
So to define a focus for what you do, it's going to be hard, isn't it?
Well, I don't know.
About seven or eight different collections, maybe ten.
I have the scenes, I may have the books and parts.
I have a Dickens collection, a Thackeray collection, or defined as great 19th century novels.
I have an early 19th, 1850 or earlier.
Is that a first Pepys diary?
Yes.
That's nice.
I got a second Pepys diary this summer.
I was very happy to get it.
Because I write about Mr. Pepys as your own book.
That's nice, yeah.
I held the actual diary it is at the library, which I described in the book.
I have the actual one that he wrote.
Oh, yeah.
I have a Rockwell Kent collection of all his manuscripts.
Gene O'Neill, modern author.
Now, why O'Neill?
I have this set.
Why?
Because I think he's the greatest playwright of the 20th century, American playwright.
Consistent, you know...
Tennessee Williams had some greater pieces, but not consistency.
I love Tennessee Williams, I'm pleased to say.
Okay.
Not bad.
For no means.
I have the most exquisite copy of Streetcar and of The Glass Menagerie.
They make you cry to see them.
The one thing I have of Williams, I have his first play ever published.
That's in paper.
Right.
I have that, too.
Band of Angels.
Yes.
I paid a lot of money for mine.
$450, exactly, as a matter of fact, from the Blombers.
Right.
I know the copy.
Yeah.
Do you?
Mm-hmm.
So I have that.
That's a good... You got a good price on it.
Okay.
Because I paid $400...
In 1980.
Well, this was eight or nine years ago that I bought it.
They've done very well for themselves.
They have.
But they're good, though.
They've been here.
David stayed here.
But then they're exceedingly knowledgeable people.
So I have a Beat Generation collection that does 10,000 pages of manuscript.
So that's a manuscript collection.
It's the Beat Generation collection.
VV generation.
Important collection in private hands.
So what happens to that then if it has such archival significance?
Well, it's the original Naked Lunch Man.
What happens to it in your view?
It eventually finds its way to a library.
Okay.
Have you given any thought as to, you know, I mean, for instance, Stanford has a huge beat collection.
Right.
I talked to them.
To Mike Keller, right?
Right.
They had to decide whether they bought the
for a million bucks, too.
I didn't think they paid quite that much.
Well, the announced figure was a million, and they haven't denied it.
I think they paid a little less, but anyway, Andrew Wiley had a collection.
You know, that collection's public.
Everyone knows about that.
I think it's too much money for Ginsburg.
If he's worth a million, mine's worth a lot more.
Yeah, I mean...
I consider him, you know, I think the New Republic called him a major-minor poet.
Right.
That's what he is.
Exactly.
You know, you were joking earlier about who wants Grapes of Wrath and all this, but I noticed you've got some pretty nice stuff.
You do have Grapes of Wrath.
What do you think of that one?
I'll tell you, I have one that's probably nicer.
You're not going to believe this until I show it to you.
The line is,
clipped up there, too.
It's wonderful.
These and I wrote for like $3,500.
Right.
It's a wonderful one.
And then I got this one here.
This is a unique copy.
It's not the first.
It's the first illustrator.
Oh, I don't know this one.
Look inside.
Oh, wait.
Oh, my.
Okay.
It's from Bill Todd.
Very important.
The guy who does a chronicle of the madness.
He used to live in Cleveland.
By John Steinbeck.
Then, it's for Bill, and it's signed by Carl Van Doren, and the artist John... Well, that's well... He also did Hemingway stuff.
That's pretty exceptional.
Outstanding.
Now, you can mute.
That's okay.
That's what's called trumping me.
I don't need to.
No, I love it.
Are you kidding?
I love it.
Are you familiar with the Winnie the Pooh books?
No, not those books.
Have you ever seen them?
I've seen them, but I do.
Have you seen the copies?
Would you want to see the most spectacular copies in existence?
Of course.
You don't want to sit in there.
No, no.
Okay.
Now we are six by... Oh, my.
That is.
That's unbelievable.
That's absolutely unbelievable, isn't it?
What prompted you to buy Winnie the Pooh?
Yeah, see, that's the only approach I knew.
I knew without buying.
It was available, and the price was right, right?
Well, why do you hate this house?
I mean, look at this.
I just got a valuation from Glenn.
10?
Per.
10.
Is that a good guess?
10?
12.
That's a good guess, though, isn't it?
They had no idea, because there's nothing like it on the market.
And we'd get 12, 10, 12, 15.
And look at that.
That is an outstanding button.
New York.
100 copies.
Congratulations.
I mean, they're normally, but they don't have the boxes with them.
That's right.
I'll put that one.
I don't want to handle it no more.
Look at that.
I'm not going to open it up.
No, I really don't want you.
The glass scene is magnificent.
Untouched.
And we're talking children's books, which are usually read to death.
Right.
Don't forget your plastic.
No, don't worry.
What was the title of that one again?
Winning the Proof.
Yeah, no, but there was that particular.
That's Winning the Proof.
Yeah, but it's a series.
It's not the same title.
No, Winning the Proof.
Is it the same book as that one?
No, no.
Now we are six.
Okay.
That's Winnie the Pooh.
That's the original.
And what's the year on that one?
Do you know offhand?
No.
Without opening up?
Don't worry.
We'll find it.
That's easy.
House of Pooh Corner.
Did you get these all from the same source?
Yes.
Look at that.
House of Pooh Corner.
Magnificent.
And you see they knew... This is when he came to your house?
Yeah.
Even a couple of weeks ago.
How long have you had them?
About 10 years, 12, 14 years.
No one knows I have these, except people come.
They came from the U.S.?
No, they came from a bakery in Baltimore.
They were in a vault, and some guy went there to liquidate the inventory and found these books and some others.
that we bought.
He came to Cleveland.
He had one edition club books, and these books, standing by the dealer, and he saw by them, and he said, how much?
And I threw out the number.
And he took it.
What?
He smiled.
Let the record show that you're smiling.
It was remarkable.
It was probably the best thing ever.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Do you know how they got into that vault?
We don't know, right?
I could trace it.
I got some letters.
Wouldn't you want to know?
I do and I don't.
What are they now?
Three books here?
Four.
Complete set.
So what were the four titles?
Winnie the Pooh.
The House at Pooh Corner.
Now we are six.
Okay, how do you get the fourth one?
When we were very young.
Okay, when we were very young.
They came out of a safe in Baltimore.
Right.
From a bakery.
That's a great story.
And I'm just standing there.
And how did you run across them?
I'm standing in a book dealer by his desk.
A guy came in.
So the guy made the deal with you?
Well, I gave the book dealer commission, of course.
I wasn't able to do it.
The dealer would delight to make a few bucks quicker.
If the dealer was smart, he would have bought the books.
Um, it had been hard because I was standing there.
Except that the guy went to the dealer.
I mean, the dealer could make a claim.
I know.
This is my wife.
Hello.
Hi.
I'm having great fun.
How are you?
Yes, Nick Rasgames.
And Donna.
Hi Donna.
Nice to meet you.
Thank you for having me in your home.
It's a great honor to be here.
Hey.
When I write, I still write with reason.
It isn't that I can't type, which I do and I do at times, but it's the energy that comes from the brain and it's a good process.
That's how I relate.
Now, that's not true for everyone.
I write on word processes, for instance.
Yeah.
I mean, but I grew up that way.
I never thought I could do it.
But I have to say, flying in, I fill these notebooks with things, and it's my best writing, these notebooks, for some reason.
Today, when I was in your office, I was going through that notebook.
Boy, that's some really good stuff in here.
You have to write it down right away until you lose it.
Some nice little images that, boy, if you don't get them down, they're gone forever and it's too bad.
Anyway, now on the other hand, I love to read books.
I also love to hear books on tape.
And most, many of the books in the 19th century were meant to be rather spoken.
And there's a poetry to
or the way they're sound.
Who was the greatest book reader of the 19th century?
Dickens.
By far.
Oh, yeah.
No, he was the book.
He would read his book on stage.
Yeah.
That's his factory.
But Dickens was the master.
Who wanted to be an actor?
Is that right?
Yeah.
He wrote plays and he acted.
He and Wilkie Collins used to act in their plays.
He was a failed actor, failed playwright.
That is interesting, though, when it comes to writing for parts, though, doesn't it?
Yes.
Because there is a dramatic element there, don't you think?
That's why I like the parts.
I mean, you know, to me, it's a fascination.
It's a combination of the funds.
And the fact that these are so fragile, these parts, they're meant to be read.
They weren't meant to be collected.
You think they were meant to be ephemeral, too, probably.
Well, they were, because they combined them, and they would sell them, you know, books in parts were also an attempt to beat the stamp of taxes.
They had a shilling tax on most of their sold for over a certain amount, but it was a purely marketing device.
But it shaped the very structure of how these writers wrote.
I mean, you could say Hardy and even Henry James wrote serially, but they wrote for magazines.
And so they enticed the readers.
I had them not to collect magazines because it's just overwhelming.
The concept of one working totally better.
So let me ask you, do you strive for completeness?
I mean, when you get into Dickens, is it necessary for you to try and get every book that you ever did in parts?
Well, I have them all.
You do, so you have them all.
Except one.
Which is that?
Sketches by Bob, which I tried once.
It's only been on the market once.
Is that the toughest one?
That's, for me, it's the toughest one.
And it is the toughest one to, the second toughest one.
The first toughest is a pick with papers, a perfect pick with papers.
And that's, there's only five or six copies in the world.
Right.
Is that one?
No.
They have about like 95 points, which collates means that they have certain advertisements and
And I think our copy has 72 points out of 95.
I sit down and check them off.
So it doesn't count then?
Oh, it counts.
My book is valuable.
But there's only five in the world.
They have all 95 points.
Right.
And the value of those books would be infinite.
So they were making corrections as they were going along.
Well, printers would insert different advertisements.
or because the popularity would be different states, and some of the plates would be dark plates because they would have to re-etch them.
Oh, the world has collated this whole thing to figure it out.
Oh, yeah, I loved it.
I mean, I don't do it now because I have them, but I've collated all my books.
You have?
Oh, yeah, sure.
I do my own collation.
So completeness is very important.
I only have one book.
Out of thousands, that's incomplete.
And I know I'll never find the first page or first chapter, so I bought a set that's missing one.
What book is there?
The Mysteries of Paris by Eugene Sue.
It's possible to find an incomplete set, but I didn't... I don't know the book.
What?
I don't know the book.
He wrote The Wandering Jew and Mysteries of Paris and the Orphans.
He's a Frenchman.
News to me.
What?
I mean, I don't know him.
Okay.
Why is he so important to you?
Actually, there's an emotional reason for that.
Of course, back to my mother.
There's always a reason, isn't there?
I'm the first to admit, but I'm not...
This is not the one in a Jew.
This is Mysteries of Paris.
Yeah.
See, I have Pat, I'm missing page, part, part, push, part.
And it's impossible because it wasn't a popular book, and therefore it wasn't collected.
So we interfered at Boston.
They gave it a deal.
I can even tell you, they paid a couple hundred dollars.
I think where I got it, and I was willing to pay
But even though it's in part one, it's missing.
Someday I'll find it.
If I find it, I'll find it.
But I knew that was it.
This is a wandering Jew in book form.
I can't find it in parts.
It did come out in parts.
Wow.
Wandering Jew was a famous French book of the 1840s.
This obviously isn't into the English tradition.
Oh, that's all I could find.
The French tend to bound to find all their books in red bindings, and so you rarely find them in the original.
This is usually the paper.
Very nice.
So what's the story about your mother?
You said it has to do with your mother?
Oh.
As a child, she had three.
That was my grandmother, my mother and Harriet.
She had three sets of books that I lived with all my life.
I mean, as a child.
One was the red volumes of a set of Stevenson, another one of Mark Twain, and The Wandering Room.
And it just was built when I was two and three and four.
My grandmother had them.
My mother had them.
I never read the book, and they were on the shelves, and I just... So it was a residence, it was kind of an LBI, I guess.
Right, an echoing to my childhood.
You said something earlier today about books that you raised as a kid that you threw away the desk jackets for, like you wanted to go back and get them, is that right?
Yeah, but as a young adult, we used to, you know, I had someone here that threw away, he was just reading books over there, and...
I gave the idea that my book, my article started, you know, one day my wife was pushing me to throw out my books, give away my books, I went to the basement and I saw, you know, that was just a big habit.
You probably should wind up throwing away too, right?
When I, my wife said we have to cull, I love it when we cull, you know, our 20,000 books you might find so effective when I can fart with, and even those that give you separation anxiety,
You know, I never read them again, but they represent as a time in my life.
And I remember what, you know, I try to justify it.
It's very hardship.
You know, there was a guy, a physician, who came to my signing in San Francisco at the ILAB.
That's a young guy.
Well, he's younger than me, which makes him young.
That's what I'm concerned.
And his collection was, he wanted to go back and get copies of the books that he loved reading growing up that influenced him.
And he didn't necessarily have to be first.
you know, but they had to be good editions as close.
And that was his collection, books that resonated from his childhood and through his forward years.
It's a good collection.
I thought, that's a nice, I said, that's a wonderful collection.
I said, that's a nice collection.
And he said, I don't have to spend a lot of money on it.
I just, I just want to get the books.
See, the difference is, but again, it's a reader's collection.
Yeah, why do I read?
But I have books from childhood, some of those.
Sure.
And some are in the basement, and some,
I find it's easier to give away, which isn't fascinating, I find it easier to give away recent readings than the ones from childhood.
I think that's true.
There's a woman who wrote a book, Lynn Sharon Schwartz, who wrote Ruin by Reading.
Have you heard about that book?
No.
There are three books out right at the same time I'm reading, what I'm reviewing that I finished in your office today.
Another one called Ruin by Reading, and then this other one is Great Books, with this guy David Denby,
He's my age.
He's a film critic and he went back to Columbia to read the book.
That's right.
Again, it's about the Western canon.
It's about the great books.
Are they still relevant?
I'm going to be on a panel with him in Miami next month.
In fact, these three people who wrote books about reading in my book should be interesting.
Who's that panel for?
It's the Miami Book Fair, which is a new book fair.
It's a great
It's not rare books.
It's new books.
No, but it's a nice... Everybody goes to it.
They must bring in 50 off.
It's a very prestigious... Do you get paid for that?
You don't get paid for that, but your publishers... You're pleased to go because... Well, the publisher sells books.
The publisher sells books, but it does get some ink, and it's nice to be invited.
Yeah, and your name is out there for... Yeah, no, that one you're pleased to go to, Ratham.
Well, books of childhood have, you know, memories for both of us.
I know Donna talks about, has talked about.
I am going to excuse myself because I wake up tomorrow at 5.30.
And I think we'll follow with you.
No, well, I'm not trying to.
How was your meeting tonight?
We moved along.
We did what we were supposed to do.
So, Donna, just before you go to bed, do you share this passion?
Do I share the passion?
I approve the passion.
I don't... I have my other passion more than... Well, I approve it.
That's good.
That's a perfect answer.
Yeah.
Donna is extraordinarily patient and supportive.
You know, we have to be careful, but we go into bookstores, wherever,
wide or inferred limits but she's been very uh sort of probably you know not always with a smile i'm laughing because i you know my wife is kind of i mean i think i've infected her with this you know this disease she used to look at me at the same kind of eye about i don't believe but lately we'll go she would have to have this you know she loves these old spirit books very
Madonna's a good collector.
I mean, I collect a lot of stuff.
I see that.
I said to Paul Barola, I said, I love all this stuff.
I collect a lot of stuff.
He said, stuff.
And we love stuff.
I mean, that's, by the way, that's a Tibetan manuscript table.
Right there?
Yeah.
Well, that's really cool.
We got that over in Nepal.
Yeah.
But I thought we were the country.
We were amazed.
Well, we...
It was a long time ago.
How old is that, would you say?
The spring century.
That's not that old.
It looks older than it probably is.
I don't think it's more than 100 years old.
I mean, that's my guess.
I mean, I... But the ones you're talking about are ancient, right?
The ones in the temples.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
What Nick is doing is opening his book chapter about libraries around the world.
And he mentioned a few... A critical place to history.
And then I said, oh, you've got to talk about Ephesus.
Well, I'm opening the book.
Which is the opening.
And we went there, my wife and I, 20 years ago.
And then I said, suggested... We did too?
Yeah.
The Tibetan, the temples in Tibet, because manuscripts along the walls, try to buy one.
They didn't work, they didn't work.
I tried to ride a gable from a house in New Guinea once, and the boat's ready to leave, and I'm trying to negotiate with these people.
I said, I've got to buy it.
And the boat's saying, come on, you've got to go.
And I'm torn.
What do I do?
And I finally left.
You look pretty tired yourself.
No, I'm.
What time is it, I bet?
It's 11.30.
Another 10 minutes or so.
Well, I'm going to go and let you finish up.
I'll see you upstairs.
Go ahead.
I'll see you tomorrow morning.
I'll be up.
Do you do coffee in the morning?
I do coffee.
Okay.
I love coffee in the morning.
Do you love coffee?
That's really all I need.
That's all you need in the morning.
That's all I need.
Okay, I will try to make a pot before I leave.
Don't worry about it.
It's not you will, but I'll be back.
Lots of worries.
If there's coffee, I'll enjoy it.
I'll be back by a quarter to eight.
I didn't even be up at that time.
Okay, and I like a lot of coffee in the morning, too.
Excellent.
Okay.
Do you take your coffee black?
It's black.
Ah, my kind of guy.
Okay.
If you're tired, I think we've got a good start.
A better one of the freshers.
I like to think about things.
I like to shoot some pictures.
Sure.
No, and I'll show you the pictures of my exhibition here if I can find them.
Which I've heard.
Obviously, I thought it really came out well.
That's quite an honor, really.
And you did mention, which we don't have on tape, that you had two exhibitions going on simultaneously in New York.
And I know about the one at the Grosier.
What was the other one?
It was called The Beat Culture.
Beat?
Beat, B-A-T.
And its influence.
And it was a show at the Whitney showing that Burroughs and Kerouac and Ginsberg were fundamentally influential.
with Jackson Pollock and Rauschenberg and all the other painters at the time, and I lent them part of the Naked Lunch manuscript, and they put a whole section of the show as my material in the middle of the room, and so it was very nice.
It's still in San Francisco down at the Dion, but the pleasure I had was the fact that I had two exhibitions, one solo and one part,
Was there a catalog for the other one?
Oh, yeah, sure.
You know, there were 200,000 people.
200,000 people came to that show.
Jeez.
And the Grow Your Club catalog, the Grow Your... I am told by the Grow Your Club remarking that my show there was one of the most successful, if not the most successful in terms of attendance, Boyer.
And the Boyer had wonderful coverage of the time.
So I had the Time, you know, magazine article, and...
The beat shell was covered around the world.
I am one of a number of contributors, but I'm not trying to suggest that.
But to have two of them at the same time, I mean, it was bouncing from one to the other.
I was having a great time.
I mean, it was something I created.
You're swirling here.
Yeah, we had a good... Well, you collect, satisfy yourself, but then also when you see this extension, I guess.
Yeah.
I love to talk, and then what I did was create a...
Another talk at Groyer where I brought in a speaker.
I found a speaker who could talk on cellular publications, which is now a big hot topic in the academic world.
There's some books written on it.
And I did a talk, a gallery talk, and then we had a dinner and had this guy talk.
His talk wasn't quite as good as I had hoped.
And John came in for that talk, too.
I mean, he was very supportive of me.
Did he come in?
He came in for both the opening and for the talk.
And he was suitably impressed that he is now hopeful of mounting his own.
That's correct.
Which I hope happens.
That would be nice.
I thought it is.
You know, absolutely.
Well, it's the next reason to go to New York.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't collect, you know, some collectors collect for glory.
They want
And there's a little bit of the ego that we all have.
It's an extension of what I... It's a creative activity.
For me it is.
You know, it's not collecting Vulcan or Hemingway.
It's easy.
It's a no-brainer.
So I like to shape something that takes a certain amount of connoisseurship.
That's the difference between what I do and some other people.
So finish that thought, some people collect for glory.
They collect for glory, they collect for, um, points of, perhaps, intellectual snobbery, you know, I collect this, I collect that.
Or the glitzy collectors, like Bill the Octopus, and, you know, Mark Himes, the books.
His collectors are in Bel Air and Beverly Hills.
Yeah, they're the entertainers of the world, you know.
Or Lou Weinstein's being interior decorator.
Who?
It defends the... I said that sounds like interior decorators.
Yeah, right.
He says, what's wrong with that out here?
Have you ever seen the money that interior decorators make out here?
Yeah, so I mean, everyone has their own... You know, I respect that.
Everyone has their motivation.
I strove mightily to try and define myself because as you define what you collect, you define who you are and why you are what you are.
Well, do you think what it's done is it's going to have a shape?
No.
Because there are apparently seven or eight disparate parts to it.
Ten, maybe.
But they just reflect various extensions of who I am.
In other words, like John collects Lewis Carroll and fables.
In a sense, one's an extension of the other because they both deal with fantasies and fables and morals.
One was Lewis Carroll, but trying to teach...
a couple of girls some moral stories, and being satirical, and fables have those same concepts.
So you can say that they are not two separate collections, but they're, in a sense, part of the platonic whole.
Mine are, and I realize that, I mean, it's easy with money to buy fancy books, but I tend to want
sort of outgrow things that just purely I have a passion for.
And some of the stuff I don't particularly like.
I mean, early American fiction really isn't an exciting period.
They're not very good writers in that period.
But it's a niche area, and it's an area that, in America, they should be more conscious of.
You know, what I collect, because they're cheap, and I can find a brick in a writer about books,
Any books I can find are 19th century American literary criticism.
Okay, that's a valid book.
I just want to see what they were writing about the authors.
You're actually collecting the authors themselves.
Right.
I mean, it amazes me that I cannot find a book published in Melville's lifetime that talks about Melville because he was totally unknown.
He was disparaging.
Right.
You know, it's amazing to find.
You won't find a book.
You may find an article.
Yeah, you might.
But when you see these books about our great living authors, he's never there.
They never regarded him as anybody.
You have to come up to the 20s before he steps in to appear.
I can find these for two and three and five and ten.
You know, you can get satisfaction collecting at any level, which is what I... Who was it?
Carl Van Vecten or...
He's one of the promoters of a lot of the time with James.
Yeah, it's not Van Vechten.
I don't need me.
Yeah, I mean, anyway, there's a whole period of that.
Yeah, he's got about four of those books.
The Powering of New England.
New England.
I got it over here.
And I can't think of his name.
It was Van something.
I got the book over here or something.
It's not Van Vechten.
Maybe it is.
I read heavily in criticism.
I do too, I love it.
I read quantum physics, and criticism, and literature, and natural history.
And the one thing we've got to talk about tomorrow, you said that you're a philosophy major, and that you actually have that too much in your reading, and I think it's too late to get into it.
I'm that person.
I am.
If you want to keep going, I really don't.
I mean, I should.
You're okay.
I'm not just saying.
I don't want to go to bed.
No, no.
It's just been a stressful.
I think that we can.
I mean, besides the orchestra, the imbalance of very heavy negotiations, they have business.
What did you say?
Searching.
For what?
Understanding what we're supposed to do.
who we are.
Well, I mean, certainly philosophically and in terms of literature, but also in terms of science and physics and all the other stuff.
I mean, whether it's a terministic block, you know, and I, you know, it's not, it's kind of bleak when you come down to it.
I love all this stuff.
It's like going to a museum.
These are, these are pre-Columbian that we dug up in Peru.
You dug up personally?
We personally dug up.
Was this reconstructed or did it come out of the ground like that?
No, it came out of the ground.
Here, we'll show you more.
Wow.
We went on a date.
How did you get this stuff out?
I keep asking these questions.
You've always been fascinated with signs?
Signs and the meaning of symbolism.
That's post-symbolic.
Give me an example of what you're talking about.
Well,
Here, each one of these represents... And what are we looking at?
This is Ethiopian.
It's a scroll, right?
A scroll, yeah.
I do not, you know, and it's a religious scroll.
And you got that in Ethiopia?
No, we never were there, but I got it nearby.
What's the language?
Coptic.
It's Coptic.
I was going to say Coptic.
I don't want to sound stupid.
And what I do is I'll make, I'll write things down.
I like to think how people wrote and why they wrote their signs.
I sometimes copy Chinese symbols just because I'm just curious about them.
You know, what makes English.
What's this fabric?
Is it that one, do you think?
Is it a skin?
I think it's a skin.
I think it is.
It is.
There's no question.
I'm pretty sure.
It's the hair side, I think.
The hair side is here.
Oh, here.
How old do you think it is?
Have you ever tested if you really care?
I really don't know.
But it's somewhat old.
You know, I would say 100.
Only because they won't bother if it's new.
It's too much work.
And this is one of my most favorite.
This is a Japanese encyclopedia.
Jeez.
That's very old.
I just love this.
Is that printed or is that printed?
Isn't this wonderful?
Yeah, it is.
It's just a wonderful... Oh, I love this.
I had no idea.
What?
Where'd you get that?
From a dealer in Australia.
You were in Australia?
No, he comes to Cleveland to see me.
And so you said you negotiated this with a caretaker at a cemetery, what is it again?
Right, in Yemen.
In Yemen.
A cemetery in the desert?
Well, are you familiar with the Empty Quarter?
No.
It's famous by Richard Burton and Weiziger and...
T.E.
Lawrence, and it's a part of the desert in Saudi Arabia Peninsula.
It's called the Empty Quarter because for hundreds of miles, it's nothing but sand.
And I always had a fantasy of crossing it.
So one day at 5 in the morning, we got bodyguards, some soldiers with rifles, AKs, and we emptied the air out of our tires, and we crossed the desert.
And it was
some danger because they were still in the Civil War then again.
And when was this?
About two years ago.
Oh, so this was 1984.
1994.
Now, three years ago, last year we were in Bolivia in 1993.
Bolivia last year, Tibet the year before, and Yemen the year before that.
And the next, we crossed the desert during the day in two cars, or two Land Rovers.
It was very dangerous.
And we got over there, and the next day we were driving in the desert, came to a little oasis.
There was a cemetery there.
And Muslim cemeteries are different than what we used to.
And they had little buildings where they had mausoleons for saints, etc.
So I went in there, looking around, I saw some books.
Caretaker was there, negotiated, bought one.
It took me about an hour to do it.
Did it take that long?
Always.
I have a lot of money.
What?
He wanted a lot of money?
Well, you know, $30.
You know, I have a principal.
You know, I don't know what I'm buying, so I just know I like it.
You know, it can't be worth a lot.
But I did something in Morocco.
It took me three days to buy it.
The first part of the Bible was done about 200 days ago.
I have it in the other room.
That's for tomorrow, perhaps.
Good.
Okay, we're talking to Bob Jackson on 8 October.
that you've given stuff to... Well, I had it with my Virginia Woolf and Victoria Vita Sacro West collection at the Fales Library in New York.
That's NYU.
NYU.
And it was a remarkable condition.
It's not a deep collection in terms of manuscripts, but in terms of quality.
But I stopped collecting them because there wasn't really anything else to collect there.
And so I gave it to them.
in my Burroughs, or small Burroughs archives in Arizona Burroughs.
William Burroughs.
Yeah, no, I just, what I'm transcribing, I have to... William Burroughs.
And then, you know, I've given books in my Huxley collections at Oberlin.
Okay, so what does this reflect on your part?
I mean, are you picking these various institutions choices and deciding which collection goes where?
The fails...
It was a friend of mine named Brad Morrow, who's a writer and a book collect dealer.
Yeah, he's written about three or four books.
One, a book on Gothic tales.
He teaches at Bard, I think.
And he does a magazine called Conjunctions.
Good morning.
And he's a semi-annual magazine of new writing.
Fresh Bagels.
Oh, great.
And he needed money for his magazine.
So I said, well, I'm going to give my books to an institution.
I don't care where.
If you want to get a benefactor to appraise my books and give money to you, I'll give it to that particular institution to help you with your magazine.
This is before he got a major distribution package.
And so he found someone to give a lot of money to the university.
They got my books, and he got the money from the university to help fund his magazine.
This was some years ago.
The Huxley went to Oberlin because I liked the people there, and I thought of Huck and Moffitt and Ray English, and that was simple.
I mean, they don't have a great...
And these are basic firsts that went there, right?
Oh, yeah.
Any papers or anything like that?
No, that's true.
The Huxley and the Wolf were strictly books.
The original small archive that I had from Burroughs was his first short stories.
a number of his novels in manuscript form, and they were sold and contributed to Arizona, someone actually through heritage.
Bob, I want to mention that.
So, I mean, they went there, so that's a major, that's a major repository.
Which is?
At Arizona State.
Yeah, nothing down there.
That's not where Larry Powell is, is it?
Yeah, this is a Tempe in Phoenix.
Oh, that's new, isn't it?
Is that a new collection?
Is that new or has that been around for a while?
Mine down there is 83.
Okay, no, there's another brand-new university.
Oh, Arizona State's been there 50 years.
There's another one that they just started.
I met a guy in San Francisco who got their 60,000 books at Bookseller.
Oh, no.
And it's a brand-new campus.
It wouldn't be going to Tempe.
No.
Santa Fe.
That's New Mexico.
Yeah, I have no idea.
And then... I made coffee.
And then I bought the other Brooks collection through Lichtenstein.
That's another story.
Did you tire of these books?
No.
What happens is you collect fully.
And then I tired of it because there really wasn't much else to collect.
There weren't important parts of it.
I'm sorry about the Virginia Woolf, but there was a point that I ran out of space and I wanted to collect more.
I just hadn't made a decision.
Well, by the way, she was saying yesterday about Virginia Woolf.
I am surprised that... Well, so is Donna.
Donna didn't agree with you.
I didn't agree with that.
Better not probe that, right?
The Hardsley and the Burroughs, she didn't have that same... Is that her statement?
That's true.
But the Virginia Woolf, you know, in order to do a good job, he had to go collect manuscripts.
And...
the passion, but you don't necessarily share.
Well, that means, that means, uh, I, I, um, Bob is far more, um, knowledgeable than I am.
And, um, I, I have so many other things that I collect.
To satisfy the collecting passion.
Right.
I mean, oh, I have, I have the disease bad.
But it's just not books.
It's just not books.
I did start to go... I think that's a very important point to make.
So why in Virginia Woolfin did you have a... Because I felt a connection to the material for some reason.
And I just didn't want to see it.
Did you have conversations about this?
Yeah, he went up.
For his books.
No, they're not his books.
They're our books.
Actually, I take a lot of pride in
Collecting together.
I mean, certain things that I do because it's my choice, but I like to have Donna's share with me.
I really like to have Donna's share with me.
I mean, book collecting can be a very solitary occupation.
I kind of started to think about collecting children's books.
I kind of went off into that area a little bit.
On my own, it wasn't of interest to Bob at the time that I suggested it.
You know, I think I am more attracted to the visuals.
He's more attracted to the printed word.
So, you know... Except that he showed me some extraordinary illustrations.
Yes, that's also true.
And I, you know, it's just that we kind of haven't found...
common ground for book collecting so i'm perfectly happy collecting all my other things and i have you know but it's just right i've seen but could you just tell me briefly some of the things that you've caught well i mean i i like uh china i haven't collected china it's not all out you mean you mean the country or do you mean no china i live in china i i go for uh
beautiful table-silver settings, old silver costume jewelry from 10th century to through the great period of costume jewelry which ended in the 40s.